Well-defined unwinding through FFI boundaries (#2699)
rust-lang/rfcs: text/XXX-unwind-FFI.md

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

Consider an `extern "C"` function that may `panic`:

```rust
extern "C" fn may_panic(i: i32) {
    if i < 0 {
        panic!("Oops, I should have used u32.");
    }
}
```

In a future (TBD) version of Rust,
calling this function with an argument less than
zero will cause the program to be aborted.
This is the only way the compiler can ensure that the function is safe,
because there is no way for it to know whether or not the calling code
supports the same implementation of stack-unwinding used for Rust.

As a concrete example,
this function may be invoked from C code on Linux or BSD
compiled without support for native stack-unwinding.
The C runtime would lack the necessary metadata
to properly propagate the unwinding operation,
so it would be undefined behavior to let the runtime attempt
to unwind the C stack frames.

However, if the C code is compiled
with support for the same stack-unwinding mechanism
used to by the Rust code,
unwinding across the FFI boundary is well-defined and safe,
and in fact it can be a useful way to handle errors
when working with certain C libraries, such as `libjpeg`.

> Thus, the `may_panic` function may be makred `#[unwind(allow)]`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, the `may_panic` function may be marked `#[unwind(allow)]`,
```

- Feature Name: `unwind-through-FFI`
- Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)
- RFC PR: ???
- Rust Issue: ???

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Provide a well-defined mechanism for unwinding through FFI boundaries.

> * Stabilize the function annotation `#[unwind(allowed)]`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add an `#[unwind(allowed)]` function attribute that's supported on `extern` functions and `extern` function declarations.
```

  which explicitly permits `extern` functions
  to unwind (`panic`) without aborting.

> * If this annotation is used anywhere in the dependency tree, 

Author: @kornelski In that case, I am somewhat confused as to why it's important to have a way to permit `panic`s to propagate past FFI boundaries. In [the post that called my attention to the problem](https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/unwinding-through-ffi-after-rust-1-33/9521?u=batmanaod), you wrote:

> These two popular libraries are specifically designed to be unwound....
>
> Rust 1.33 effectively killed my `mozjpeg` crate...

If aborting is "perfectly fine", why does `mozjpeg` need a way to unwind past FFI boundaries?

If indeed `libjpeg` wrappers do need to let unwind operations cross FFI boundaries, that _is already_ a global configuration issue that must be solved for the whole binary (which may be a dynamic library rather than a final executable). This is because such unwinding _is not safe_ unless the behavior of the unwind runtime is stable and guaranteed, and the default `panic` runtime does not and will not provide such a guarantee.

> * If this annotation is used anywhere in the dependency tree, 

Reviewer 3: @kornelski I think part of the problem is what happens if you compile the app with `panic=abort` but the dynamic lib was compiled with `panic=unwind`. In that case the unwind machinery won't exist. I can think of two ways to solve this:

1. Add a feature to the (`mozjpeg`) lib so users can opt out of `#[unwind(allowed)]` attributes if they binary is being compiled with `panic=abort`. I'm not sure how this would work if `mozjpeg` is an indirect dependency... I haven't ever tried to fiddle with a transitive denedency's feature flags.
2. Modify this RFC so it supports `#[unwind(allowed)]` with `panic=abort`. This would require the compiler to implicitly wrap calls to the extern panic-able function in a catch block to catch any exception and immediately call abort. I'm not sure whether or not this is feasible in all situations (e.g., weird `no_std` embedded environments).

> * If this annotation is used anywhere in the dependency tree, 

Author: @mjbshaw I don't understand your second suggestion. If a dependency graph has a crate with `panic=abort` in it, then all `panic`s will abort, and, if `#[unwind(allowed)]` is permitted (as it currently is in Nightly), it will have no effect whatsoever.

As for `no_std` environments, those currently can't `panic` without a custom `panic_runtime` crate (which is the main reason `#![panic_runtime]` exists).

  generation of the final (binary) product will fail
  unless the panic strategy is `unwind`
  and a non-default panic runtime is specified.

> * Stabilize the `#![panic_runtime]` annotation (from

Author: Yes, because it's the only way to guarantee compatibility between the Rust unwind mechanism and the C/C++ stack frames.

  [RFC #1513](less-unwinding)).
* Provide an `unwind` runtime in the standard library
  that guarantees compatibility with the native exception mechanism
  provided by the compiler backend.
* Provide a Cargo option under `[profile.foo]` to specify a `panic` runtime.

[less-unwinding]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/1513-less-unwinding.md

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

This will enable resolving

> [rust-lang/rust#58794](rust-ffi-issue)

Author: ```suggestion
[rust-lang/rust#58794][rust-ffi-issue]
```

> [rust-lang/rust#58794](rust-ffi-issue)

Author: Thanks!

Currently, unwinding through an FFI boundary is always undefined behavior.
We would like to make the behavior safe
by aborting when the stack is unwound to an FFI boundary.
However, there are existing Rust crates
(notably, wrappers around the `libpng` and `libjpeg` C libraries)
that rely on the current implementation's compatibility
with the native exception handling mechanism in
GCC, LLVM, and MSVC.

This RFC will give crate authors the ability
to initiate stack-unwinding
that can propagate through other languages' stack frames,
as well as tools for ensuring compatibility with those languages.

[rust-ffi-issue]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/58794

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

Consider an `extern "C"` function that may `panic`:

```rust
extern "C" fn may_panic(i: i32) {
    if i < 0 {
        panic!("Oops, I should have used u32.");
    }
}
```

In a future (TBD) version of Rust,
calling this function with an argument less than
zero will cause the program to be aborted.
This is the only way the compiler can ensure that the function is safe,
because there is no way for it to know whether or not the calling code

> supports the same implementation of stack-unwinding used for Rust.

Reviewer 2: This function is assumed to never `panic!`, and this function, as well as code calling it, will be optimized accordingly.

A valid optimization on this function is therefore to remove the `if i < 0 { panic!() }` brach, since that code cannot ever be reached without invoking undefined behavior. That is, you end up with `extern "C" fn may_panic(i: i32) { }`, and calling that from C code is actually "fine", because no unwinding can happen. 

This section has to somehow be reworked to account for this.

Author: Good point. Would adding `opt-level=0` be sufficient?

Reviewer 2: No, undefined behavior is optimization level independent. I think the content in the section is just incorrect and needs to be corrected. As in, the undefined behavior here has nothing to do with FFI. The following snippet has undefined behavior, and no FFI was involved:

```rust
extern "Rust" fn foo() { panic!() } 
fn bar () { foo() }
```

Reviewer 3: @gnzlbg [The Rust reference says](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/items/functions.html#extern-functions): "unwinding past the end of an extern function will cause the process to abort", which seems well-defined to me, not UB.

Reviewer 2: You are right, in a future version of Rust that will happen. Right now it is UB. It is unclear to me when the abort happens. I'll ask in the tracking issue.

Author: @gnzlbg I'm not sure what point you're trying to make. You mention "a valid optimization" that causes the undefined behavior not to interact with the caller's runtime, but of course `opt-level=0` wouldn't permit such an optimization.

As for the Rust-only, no-FFI version, that's only undefined behavior from the perspective of Rust users because Rust itself doesn't _yet_ define the behavior, and it's only undefined behavior from the perspective of `rustc` itself because of the `nounwind` attribute. The point I am trying to make is that even _without_ the `nounwind` attribute, for an FFI function, there would still be the potential for undefined behavior, because "there is no way for [the compiler] to know whether or not the calling code supports the same implementation of stack-unwinding used for Rust."

Reviewer 2: > @gnzlbg I'm not sure what point you're trying to make. You mention "a valid optimization" that causes the undefined behavior not to interact with the caller's runtime, but of course opt-level=0 wouldn't permit such an optimization.

We do not guarantee that we don't optimize with `-C opt-level=0`, at least not in the language reference. Optimization levels are not part of the language, and undefined behavior is undefined, independently of which optimization level you are using. Otherwise, you could claim for any code that works at `opt-level=0` that it has defined semantics, but this is not the case (one does not follow from the other). 

> The point I am trying to make is that even without the nounwind attribute, for an FFI function, there would still be the potential for undefined behavior, because "there is no way for [the compiler] to know whether or not the calling code supports the same implementation of stack-unwinding used for Rust."

I think the proof obligation here is in the code declaring the function, not the code defining it. Some code _defines_  an `extern "C"` function like this, which is safe:

```rust
extern "C" fn foo() { ... }  // this is safe
```

Calling `foo` from that module is safe. 

However, some other Rust code _declares_ the function to be able to use it:

```rust
extern "C" { fn foo(); }
```

Calling `foo` from this code is `unsafe` because there is no way for the compiler to check whether this declaration matches the definition. 

If you consider the panic-runtimes as part of the function ABI, then in the definition the compiler can make sure that everything is correct, so I don't see why that would need to be unsafe. 

In the declaration, the compiler cannot check anything anyways, so that needs to be unsafe.

Reviewer 4: > Right now it is UB. It is unclear to me when the abort happens. I'll ask in the tracking issue.

The implementation of aborting-at-FFI boundary makes it so that unwinding aborts at the FFI boundary after all Rust frames above the FFI boundary are unwound and all scheduled cleanups are executed.

As a concrete example,
this function may be invoked from C code on Linux or BSD
compiled without support for native stack-unwinding.
The C runtime would lack the necessary metadata
to properly propagate the unwinding operation,
so it would be undefined behavior to let the runtime attempt
to unwind the C stack frames.

However, if the C code is compiled
with support for the same stack-unwinding mechanism
used to by the Rust code,
unwinding across the FFI boundary is well-defined and safe,
and in fact it can be a useful way to handle errors
when working with certain C libraries, such as `libjpeg`.

Thus, the `may_panic` function may be makred `#[unwind(allow)]`,
which ensures that the unwinding operation will be propagated to the caller
rather than aborting the process.
This annotation will also prevent the compiler

> from marking the function as `noexcept`

Reviewer 2: Rust does not have `noexcept`, LLVM does have `nounwind`, and that's what we use.

> nounwind: This function attribute indicates that the function never raises an exception. If the function does raise an exception, its runtime behavior is undefined.

Author: Ah. Sorry, I should have double checked. Thanks.
```suggestion
from marking the function as `nounwind`
```

(which permits the backend toolchain from optimizing based on the assumption
that an unwinding operation cannot escape from a function).

This annotation can only be used with an `unsafe` function,
since the compiler is unable to guarantee

> that the caller will be compiled with a compatible stack-unwinding mechanism.

Reviewer 2: `extern "C"` functions can be also called from Rust as well, and there is no guarantee that they will ever be called from C at all. 

AFAICT, if they were to be called from C, it would be up-to-C to mark them unsafe, and make sure that all proof-obligations are satisfied before calling them. 

So I'm not sure what the point of requiring `unsafe` here is.

Author: My thought process was that every piece of code imposing a safety-related contract that cannot be checked by `rustc` should be marked `unsafe`. Permitting `unwind` out of an `extern` function imposes such a contract: the calling code must be able to catch or propagate the `unwind` safely.

Author: ...though I hadn't thought about the inconvenience of statically linking such a function against other Rust code, which would be perfectly safe but would require an `unsafe` block anyway.

Reviewer 2: > My thought process was that every piece of code imposing a safety-related contract that cannot be checked by rustc should be marked unsafe

I'm not sure I follow your train of thought. What makes:

```rust
pub #[unwind(allow)] extern "Rust" fn foo() { ... }
```

special when compared with 

```rust
pub fn bar() { ... }
```

? 

Both can panic, and both can be called from other Rust crates. Why does one need to be unsafe, but the other does not ?

Author: If I understand correctly, only the `extern` version can be called from a dynamically-loaded shared library. Is it possible to call `pub fn bar()` in this way? If so, then, since Rust permits custom `panic` runtimes, it should be possible to have undefined behavior by calling `bar` by compiling the shared library and the executable itself with different `panic` runtimes. If that's the case...I'm not sure what the solution would be.

This RFC does, however, provide a tool that will enable users
to provide this guarantee themselves.
We will stabilize the `!#[panic_runtime]` annotation,
which [designates a crate as the provider of the final product's panic runtime]
(less-unwinding).
Additionally, the standard library's current `panic=unwind` runtime crate,
`libpanic_unwind`, which is compatible with native C++ style exceptions,
will be provided under another name (such as `libpanic_native`)
that guarantees the implementation will remain compatible with C++ exceptions
(while the implementation of `libpanic_unwind` itself may change
to no longer maintain that compatibility).

In order for Cargo users to be able
to specify the C++ compatible `panic_runtime` implementation,
a new optional value, runtime, will be added to the `profile.foo.panic` option:

```toml
[profile.dev]

> panic = { 'unwind', runtime = 'native' }

Author: Thanks; I didn't realize that.

```suggestion
panic = { strategy = 'unwind', runtime = 'native' }
```

```

`panic.runtime` may only be specified if the panic strategy is `unwind`.
And just as there may only be one strategy
in the dependency graph for a final product,
there may only be one `runtime`.

For now, the only valid `runtime` keys will be:

* `default` - identical to `panic = 'unwind'` with no `runtime` selected.
  This will use Rust's default unwinding runtime,
  unless another crate in the final product's dependency graph
specifies `panic = 'abort'`,
  in which case the `abort` strategy will take precedence as usual.
  which is not guaranteed to be compatible with native exceptions.
* `native` - as discussed above, this will preserve the behavior of the current
  implementation of `libpanic_unwind`.
* `crate` - indicates that a non-`std` crate will use `#![panic_runtime]` to
  provide the runtime.
* `self` - indicates that this crate itself provides `#![panic_runtime]`.

If the `native` or `crate` key is specified
anywhere in a final product's dependency graph,
no crate in that dependency graph may specify the `panic = abort` strategy;

> this mismatch will cause the build to fail.

Reviewer 4: This lacks motivation. `abort` is strictly more compatible than any implementation of unwinding. `abort` also matches the intended semantics of unwinding in Rust.

Author: Thinking about your "intended semantics of unwinding" comment has led me to rethink the motivation of the whole RFC.

In another Internals thread, I [wrote](https://users.rust-lang.org/t/porting-mozjpeg-to-rust-10k-gig/28899/12?u=batmanaod),

> I think Rust should be able to interoperate with existing libraries that use standard non-local control flow constructs...

So, to me, the fundamental semantic mismatch is that C++ treats stack-unwinding as a control-flow construct, while Rust treats it as a way of handling bugs. I think Rust's philosophy on this is _better_, but I stand by the implied statement in my quote above that C++'s view is "standard". (In fact, I believe I've read a Ruby book that explicitly explains exceptions in terms of "nonlocal control flow" rather than in terms of error handling.)

So, to me, the fundamental questions that must be answered are:

* Should Rust have a means of interfacing with foreign APIs that use stack-unwinding as a means of (semantically) non-exceptional control flow?
* If so, how?

I would be okay with putting this RFC PR on hold in order to go completely back to the drawing board on these questions, but I really feel like I need more help than I'm getting currently; I don't know nearly enough about how stack unwinding is actually _implemented_ (and some of the other issues you've pointed in the RFC out reveal this ignorance), and unfortunately I'm not sure I can commit the time to learning these details in any sort of timely manner. (At my current job nearly all our code runs on the JVM, so my work on this PR is in no way relevant to my "real" work.)

Author: If we do go back to the drawing board, here are two thoughts I would like to take the time to consider in more depth:

* In multi-threaded code, `panic` *is* actually semantically more like `throw` than in single-threaded code, since by default it only terminates one thread, and the "exception" information (i.e. the `Error` returned from `join`) may be useful to the parent thread. Perhaps it would be good to extend this model, permitting native exceptions to be caught by `join` but not by `catch_panic` (i.e. effectively limiting FFI-stack-unwinding to child threads).
* The only other non-local control flow construct I can think of in Rust that permits returning to a prior stack frame is `await`. Maybe the most idiomatic (albeit nonstandard compared to existing languages) way to deal with exceptions-as-control-flow would be to model FFI code that unwinds as something akin to a generator that may `yield` an error rather than a valid value. (I realize this idea is at best half-baked.)

The function annotation `#[panic(allowed)]` will only be permitted in crates

> that specify a non-default `panic.runtime`.

Reviewer 2: Why wouldn't `#[panic(allowed)]` be allowed on crates that use `panic = abort` ? AFAICT that would mean that no panics do ever propagate, which would be correct for `#[panic(allowed)]` functions.

Author: I know this is a change in semantics from the existing unsafe attribute, but I think `#[panic(allowed)]` should only be used where unwinding is required for correct behavior (as is the case with `libjpeg`).

Reviewer 2: How is `#[panic(allowed)]` different from `#[unwind(allowed)]` ? I think I maybe confusing what the point of this attribute is.

Author: Dumb mistake. I meant `unwind(allowed)`. I also made that mistake once in the RFC text itself, so I've corrected that.

> The function annotation `#[panic(allowed)]` will only be permitted in crates

Author: Fixed. My mistake.

> Crates that do not use the `profile.foo.panic` option at all

Author: I'm not sure; from my reading of RFC 1513, I thought there was already some interdependence between different crates' `profile` sections for a single build.

will remain compatible with any `profile.foo.panic` configuration
used to generate the final product.

For non-Cargo users, equivalent `rustc` flags will be provided
(which will be how Cargo itself implements the option).

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

> Unwinding for functions with the `#[unwind(allowed)]` annotation

Reviewer 4: Does "functions" include declarations or is it only applicable to definitions?

Author: I only intended it to be applicable to definitions. If the RFC is modified to permit it on declarations, my knee-jerk reaction would be to somehow make it required on declarations (i.e. it would be an error if the definition uses `unwind(allowed)` but the declaration doesn't repeat the annotation). In any case, I think it would _need_ to be an error to specify it on a declaration if the corresponding definition doesn't specify it (I don't see how the implementation could make the `abort` behavior dependent on the declaration).

is performed as if the function were not marked `extern`.

> This annotation has no effect on functions not marked `extern`.

Reviewer 2: You mentioned above that this attribute is not allowed on functions not marked `extern`. I understand that as, if a non-`extern` function has this attribute, the program is illegal, and compilation must be aborted.

Author: Ah, good catch. This is a holdover from the previous version of the proposal.

```suggestion
This annotation is not permitted on functions not marked `extern`.
```

It has no observable effect unless the marked function `panic`s
(e.g. it has no observable effect
when a function returns normally or enters an infinite loop).

> The LLVM IR for such functions must not be marked `noexcept`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The LLVM IR for such functions must not be marked `nounwind`.
```

> The LLVM IR for such functions must not be marked `nounwind`.

Reviewer 4: This is an implementation detail and should not be normative. If the compiler can prove that no function in the call graph could possibly unwind, it is perfectly fine for the function to be marked as `nounwind` nevertheless.

Author: That's fair enough; I thought I had received feedback on my first draft that I should explicitly include mention of not emitting `nounwind`, but I can't actually find that comment so I may simply be mis-remembering.

```suggestion
```

The compiler will have a new stable flag, `-C panic.runtime`,

> which will be required to enable the `#[unwind(allowed)]` annotation;

Reviewer 2: Why does one need to pass a panic-runtime for `#[unwind(allowed)] extern "Rust" fn foo(...) -> ... { ... }` ? AFAICT this function can only be called from other Rust code, and that code must always have a compatible panic-runtime ?

Author: Statically-linked Rust code must have a compatible panic-runtime; but AFAIK we can't provide any guarantees about whether dynamically-linked code shares the same runtime (especially with this proposal, which makes it easy to use the new `native` runtime).

Reviewer 2: So how does this work today? IIUC, one can already provide custom panic run-times, and use those to compile libraries and link them, both statically and dynamically.

Author: @kornelski The whole problem is that, for dynamically-linkable functions, the compiler _can't know_ whether the caller will have a "compatible" runtime, i.e., it can't know what "compatible runtime" even means. So, from my perspective, the purpose of the `unwind(allowed)` attribute is to let the user say "trust me, the runtime _I've selected_ is compatible with the runtime of any callers of this code." To make this assertion without actually selecting a runtime seems like a logic error from my perspective.

With that said, it does seem like it might be useful to have utility crates that can be used with binaries that use either `unwind.runtime = "native"` or `unwind.runtime = "crate"`. Maybe instead of `crate`, there should be an option that just means "non-default" (compatible with `self` and `native`, but not with `default`).

@gnzlbg Yes, RFC 1513 provides this capability, but it explains that the dependency graph of a binary can only have _one_ `panic` runtime.

> The compiler will have a new stable flag, `-C panic.runtime`,

Reviewer 4: This would be the first flag with a `.` in it.

as explained above, the flag will specify the expected source
of the panic runtime to be used in the final (binary) product.
If the source is `default`,
the `libpanic_unwind` crate will provide the runtime,
and the `#[unwind(allowed)]` annotation will not be permitted in that crate.

Different values of `panic.runtime` will not be permitted for different crates

> in a single dependency graph,

Reviewer 2: What happens if two objects are not part of the same dependency graph, but, e.g., are dynamically linked ? E.g. some Rust binary is dynamically linked against a Rust dynamic library that exposes a `#[unwind(allowed)] extern "Rust" fn foo() {}` function.

Author: As far as I know, this is entirely out of our control, as I mentioned above. (The decision to link or not is essentially in the hands of the target platforms binary loader, right?) That's part of why the annotation needs `unsafe`.

Reviewer 5: The "right" answer here, I think, is to define that the runtime is part of the ABI of the function. Allowing the function declaration to define what panic runtime it's using would solve the dynamic linking problem safely, at the cost of forcing us to stabilize the details of the ABI. For `panic.runtime = "native"`, those details are already forced onto us anyways, but I'm not sure we want to force ourselves to take the step for future runtimes as well.

Author: @jcranmer I may be misunderstanding you, but individual functions within the same shared library can't have different ABIs, can they? What would it mean for the runtime to be "part of the ABI of the function"?

Reviewer 2: > but individual functions within the same shared library can't have different ABIs, can they?

Of course, `extern "C"`, `extern "fastcall"`, `extern "Rust`, etc. 

> What would it mean for the runtime to be "part of the ABI of the function"?

Exactly that. In the same way one has to declare a function `extern "C"`  when calling a function following that ABI, and using some other `extern "X"` when that function uses a different ABI, one would need to specify what the panic ABI of a function that can panic is. 

That's what `#[unwind(Rust)]` did. It specified that this function can panic "with the Rust ABI". Since there can only be one panic implementation for all dynamically and statically linked Rust libraries, `#[unwind(Rust)]` meant "whatever ABI that has".

Author: Can system linkers actually detect ABI mismatches? How is this done?

Reviewer 2: > Can system linkers actually detect ABI mismatches? 

No. This is not a new problem, if you declare a function as `extern "C"`, and that function happens to have a different ABI, you often don't get linker errors either.

with the exception of `self`, which may only be used once
in a dependency graph,
and is only compatible with crates using the `crate` value.
Because the `panic` runtime is lazily selected and linked,
crates that do not specify a value for `panic.strategy`
are compatible with crates using any of the four values.

> Crates that explicitly specify the `default` runtime, however,

Reviewer 4: This essentially makes such crates incompatible with `libstd`/`libcore` etc, which come precompiled and use the `crate` panic strategy AFAIR. Using such crates realistically would require user to compile their own `libstd` or `libcore` – or some other mechanism for distribution will need to happen (such as metadata-only-rlibs).

Author: RFC 1513 says:

> The standard library will need a runtime and will be lazily linked to a crate which has `#![panic_runtime]`.

I thought the "lazily" was intended to imply that the standard library could be used with any panic runtime; am I misunderstanding the RFC? I intended the wording of my RFC to use the same "laziness" strategy to ensure compatibility between all `unwind` crates that don't specify _conflicting_ strategies.

are not compatible with crates using other runtimes.

In order to verify that all crates in a dependency graph
are compatible in this way,

> new metadata will need to be added to the `rlib` format.

Reviewer 4: This, like the concept of metadata, is a compiler implementation detail. Rather it is sufficient for a normative document to only specify what is checked, what is allowed and what is the expected outcomes in all sorts of situations are – just like you did in the section above.

Holistically following the RFC process (which it isn’t, but that is not the point), this section may force our hand in implementing something in a way that’s not necessarily the easiest/best/etc approach.

I recommend removing this paragraph entirely.

Author: Okay; I was trying to follow the example set by RFC 1513, which states,

> This codegen option will default to `unwind` if not specified (what happens
> today), and the value will be encoded into the crate metadata. This option is
> planned with extensibility in mind to future panic strategies if we ever
> implement some (return-based unwinding is at least one other possible option).

Would rephrasing to refer to "crate metadata" instead of "the `rlib` format" specifically be preferable to removing it?

The interaction between the `#[unwind(allowed)]` annotation
and the `panic.strategy` option
provides the maximum safety that the toolchain can provide
without limiting Rust's ability to interoperate
with shared libraries in other languages
(particularly `libpng` and `libjpeg` as mentioned
[above](#motivation)).

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

[RFC #1513](less-unwinding) introduced
the `#![panic_runtime]` attributes, the `-C panic` compiler flag, and
the corresponding `profile.foo.panic` Cargo option.

The `#[unwind(allowed)]` annotation already exists as an unstable feature,
though the current implementation does not impose any requirements
on the `panic` implementation.

As mentioned above, GCC and LLVM provide an `-fexceptions` flag
that makes the C++ exception mechanism interoperable with C stackframes.
The C standard does not refer to exceptions at all, however,
and the C++ standard does not make any guarantees
regarding the behavior of exceptions that escape from C++ stack frames
into stack frames written in another language.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

* Should the `panic.runtime` option and its permitted values be renamed?

> * What is the minimal subset of features listed here that must be released

Author: @kornelski That's already provided by `#[unwind(allowed)]` in Nightly. I believe the reason it can't be stabilized yet is that the default `panic` runtime is not guaranteed to be stable, and `#[unwind(allowed)]` would (as explained above) expose this runtime code that may be compiled with a different runtime.

Regarding C++, unwinding in C _is_ C++ exception-propagating. That's why it requires the `-fexceptions` flag. C libraries compiled with GCC or LLVM without that flag _will not_ properly support unwinding.
